# CA using LOD's
The purpose of this project was to increase the expressive range of cellular automata for the use in procedural generation.
The generator builds upon the cave generator by Lawrence Johnson, Georgios N. Yannakis, and Julian Togelius described in their paper "Cellular automata for real-time generation of infinite cave levels".  
The code contains both an immitation of the original generator and the generator developed in this project.  
## How it works
The new generator works by generating content in multiple layers of detail. This is done by first generating an initial grid and then iteratively generate higher levels of detail.  
Each level of detail is generated by multiplying the size of the grid used in the previous level of detail by 3. Each cell in the new grid is initialized using a cell from the previous grid. Then normal cellular automata iterations are performed.  
The project also contains code for analysing the expressive range of the generators.  
The tests show that the new generator does infact have a higher expressive range.

The project is implemented using GLFW, GLEW, GLM, FreeType, and the stb_image header file from stb.

## Building the project
The project can be build for Windows using Visual Studio 2022 with the MSVC v143 compiler. Simply clone the project and build.  
The project can only be build for Windows as it relies on the Windows API.
Note that the code uses features from C++20. So if you attempt to use another compiler make sure that it supports C++20.  
In addition, the project has been written for 64-bit. It might work for 32-bit but that has not been tested.
Also make sure that your GPU supports OpenGL.

## Project Structure
The project has two main directories: The Dependencies directory, and the ProceduralGeneration directory.  
Dependencies contains the libraries used for implementing the project (except for stb). It contains four subdirectories: GLFW, GLEW, GLM, and FreeType each containing the code for the respective libraries.  
The ProceduralGeneration directory contains the programs source code. This is divided into two more directories: shaders, and src.
The shaders directory contains, as the name suggests, the shaders used by the program. The shaders are written in GLSL.
The src directory contains the rest of the programs source code. The top level of the directory itself contains a few miscellaneous .cpp and .h files as well as subdirectories containing what their names describe.

## Additional Directory
The program requires three directories to be present in the same directory as the executable.  
The first one is the shader directory.  
The two other directories contain the results of testing the generators. These directories are named topDown and sideScroller and contain the results of testing the generators for Top Down games and Side scroller games.  
All three directories are automatically copied to the output directory when the program is built.

## Using the Program
The program can be controlled using the following keyboard keys:  
The 'G' key generates a map using the generator using multiple levels of detail.  
The 'H' key generates a map using the original generator.  
The 'A' key starts a series of tests of both generators. The results are drawn on heat maps which are stored in the topDown and sideScroller directories.  
The 'P' key renders the contents of the window to a file called "result.png".
